# Arciorgano Player Patch
_Remote access to the Arciorgano_

The Arciorgano Player Patch is a collection of tools to remotely play and monitor the Arciorgano, 
located at the Campus of the Musik-Akademie Basel (FHNW). 

This document describes a rudimentary setup which can be extended easily. The player
interface of the organ is listening to OSC messages that can be sent from any software
that supports OSC. Simultaneously there is a live audio stream available to listen to the
organ. 


## Quick start

### Listen to the organ

The live audio stream is generated by an Icecast 2 server, at 10.209.132.109:8080. To
access it, you could type this address into your browser address bar:
http://10.209.132.109:8080. If the server is active, you should see the details of "Mount
Point /pandora.mp3". Click on the M3U symbol, top right. The browser should start playing
the stream, or offer you options to open the stream with an application. If you don't have
a player software capable of doing that, you might want to install VLC
(https://www.videolan.org/vlc/).

### Play the organ

1. Check if PureData is installed on your system. If not: download and install PureData on
   your system. The "Vanilla" release should be sufficient.
   https://puredata.info/downloads

2. Open the file arciorgano-player.pd from this repository in PureData. You should see a
   clickable keyboard and pipe arrangement of the Arciorgano.

3. Click on the green button "connect to arciorgano".

4. Clock on the green button "motor on". The blower should now start, wait a couple of
   seconds until the wind pressure is built up.

5. Play the organ by clicking on the keys or pipes. 



### Use the Sibelius bridge feature

1. Download the Sibelius plugin file.

2. Copy it into the plugin folder of your Sibelius installation. This depends on your operating 
   system and your Sibelius version. You might find important informations here: 
   http://www.sibelius.com/download/plugins/index.html?help=install

3. Open a Sibelius score, select everything, run the plugin "Arciorgano Tabulature Conversion". If 
   Sibelius is configured to show hidden text, you should be able to see a PitchBend-command for each note
   in the score.

4. Make sure that Sibelius uses a virtual MIDI device for its MIDI output (see "Play" tab -> Configuration). 
   On Windows you might need to install a tool for that, for example "loopMIDI". 

5. Open the PureData patch. Connect to the Arciorgano or switch on the sampler. Choose the virtual MIDI device
   as MIDI input (Media -> MIDI settings). Switch on the "Sibelius Bridge" module.

6. Start the playback of the score in Sibelius. The PureData patch should receive MIDI messages from Sibelius
   and interpret the PitchBend-commands correctly. 


Please note: MIDI can only send PitchBend commands per channel. Therefore, you can't notate more than one note
at a time per staff. Use separate staffs for each individual voice. Only 16 channels are supported, you can't
create chords involving more than 16 keys simultaneously. Use the quartertone tabulature for your scores. 

